# Services

I can offer my services in software development and maintenance.

I do Ruby and Node.js development, using frameworks such as RubyOnRails,
Sinatra, Goliath, and Express. Iâ€™m also interested in information
retrieval, machine learning techniques, distributed software
architectures, cloud computing, REST and HTTP APIs, and web development
in general.

Here are the main areas where I can help you:

## New development

Be it a full-fledged project or a prototype to explore a new market, I
can help you build any kind of web application using the Ruby language
and the productive RubyOnRails framework. If your application requires a
high level of concurrency, I am also well versed into programming using
Node.js.

## Legacy application

The world is full of software, but existing applications can have a
number of pain points that I can help you resolve.

### Migrating to a modern Ruby on Rails version

RubyOnRails is a very good framework, but it is evolving quite rapidly.
If you're stuck with an old version and can't make all the changes you'd
like to do because of it -- for instance you're stuck on a Rails 2.x
version with Ruby 1.8.6 or 1.8.7 -- I can help you migrate it quickly
and refactor where needed.

### Refactoring

If you're spending a lot more time than expected each time you're making
a change to an existing code, it may be time to step back and refactor
some parts of the code to make it more welcoming to change.

### Testing

If you're wasting a lot of time with manual testing on your existing
application, or worse, getting angry customers due to regressions when
introducing new changes in the code, then it's time to start building a
proper test suite for your application.

Using outside-in testing, I can build a test suite that will make your
application much more resilient to changes.

### Performance improvements

Be it poorly written SQL queries, slow page loading, poor HTTP caching,
or test suites that run so long that you're no longer running them as
often as you'd like, I can help you pin-point the performance issues and
act on them.

## DevOps & Cloud Computing

Automation and proper tooling and infrastructure can give a competitive
advantage to your business. If you need help in migrating to Git,
setting up a proper bug tracker (Redmine), a continuous integration
server (Jenkins), configuring servers using automated recipes (with Chef
or Puppet), or migrating some of your applications to one of the
existing cloud providers (Amazon Web Services, Rackspace, OVH, Gandi), I
can either provide the necessary formation or do it for you.

## Formation

If your development team needs a refreshment in one of the following
areas, I can dedicate a few days to personal training and workshops:

* Advanced Ruby programming;

* Advanced Ruby on Rails;

* RESTful API design;

* Cloud computing concepts and usage;

# About

I have 6+ years of experience with Ruby & RubyOnRails