---
title: Rulu 2012
layout: post
---

I just came back from [Rulu] [rulu] 2012, the second edition of the best
Ruby conference in France. Good food, perfect organization, nice
location, very nice weather, and some good talks as well. Most
importantly, almost twice as many people as last year, which means I met
a lot of new people :)

A quick poll showed that more than 1/3 of the Rulu attendees are now
working remotely, which is... unexpected, at least in France. Among
those, it would have been interesting to know the proportion of
freelancers and employees.

<img src="/images/posts/rulu2012-lightning-talk.jpeg" width="100%" />

On the last day, I decided to register to do a lightning talk on
[pkgr][pkgr]. This was quite a challenge, as it was my first time
speaking in front of so many people, talking about a not-so-easy subject
(deployment and debian packaging), and I had to prepare a presentation
on the spot during one of the morning breaks.

Obviously that led to a few issues: I did the mistake of putting way too
many things on my [slides][slides] (bullet points? with more than 3
words? whaaaat?), which diluted the point I was trying to make (which
is: "deploying a Rails app -- especially off-the-shelf Rails apps such
as Redmine -- is not as simple as it could be"); I couldn't show my last
slide (5 mins is very quick); and I probably spoke a bit too fast.

I'm sure I'll find a lot more issues when/if the recording of the talk
is made available. That being said, that makes for good practice, and it
led to a few interesting discussions afterwards. But next time, I'll
make sure to schedule and prepare my presentation before-hand.

See you all next year, or at [BaRuCo][baruco] in September!

[pkgr]: http://crohr.me/pkgr
[slides]: https://speakerdeck.com/u/crohr/p/pkgr-apt-get-install-my-rails-app
[rulu]: http://rulu.eu
[baruco]: http://baruco.org/